>> Steve: So we've talked about promises.
We've seen how to use a promise to wrap
something that might be asynchronous,
all right?
And it's interesting,
like Mike was saying,
someone might be like why wouldn't
you send that to the server?
Why are you doing all of
this message to a thread and
get a message back from a thread?
Cuz that is totally different
than sending it to a server.
So [LAUGH] yeah, so
it's the same amount of complexity,
but you do get all of these advantages
of having client side, right?
But sometimes you do
need to talk to a server,
and we're gonna talk about
some patterns for that.
Talking to servers has had a long storied
history in client-side engineering.
Obviously, any time that
you think to yourself,
the web is hard and, or
possibly broken irreparably.
Remember that it is a document viewer from
the 1990s that we turned into the world's
largest distributed platform.
[LAUGH] Just remember that
nobody sold it to us.
So originally, you requested a page,
you got a page.
That was the promise that
Tim Burners-Lee gave you.
Right, and
that's what you got in the early 90s.
Then through some historical oddities,
Microsoft gave us XHRHttpRequest,
a story that I'm happy to share later.
And this gave us the ability to fetch
additional data without dumping out
the entire page and
getting a new one, right?
And this was monumental,
this is a fundamental building
block of the modern web,
that you don't toss out the entire
page you had just to see if there's a new
email, or anything along those lines.
But hey, ask the server anything new,
get it, put it on the page.
It's the reason that you
have things like JML.
You have almost all, well, we think
of web applications rather than pages
are built on top of this horrid API.
So this is the ancient way, and
if you've never seen this, one,
thank your lucky stars.
Because as soon as we could come up
with an abstraction around this we
stopped doing it.
But what you do is you
create a new XMLHttpRequest.
Don't worry if you're getting JSON or
anything else, it's an XMLHttpRequest,
cuz that was good naming.
You would then open it with the method and
the URL that you wanted to retrieve.
You would then set the response type,
and then you'd add two event listeners,
an onload event listener, and
an onerror event listener.
And you're arguing like hey,
it looks like you're using
a feature from the early mid-2000s and
ES6 at the same time.
It's hard to get all of this on a slide.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Steve: And
then after you added all those event
listeners, you would go ahead and send it,
which would then call one of
the above written event listeners.
And you would write all
these lines every time.
And so over time we've came up with
patterns to abstract around those,
the first being the call back pattern,
right?
How about you just give me a method and
a URL, I will do all of this and
I will call whatever function you handed
me on the onload and onerrors, right?
So we gave ourselves an abstraction.
More recently we've had,
as we saw before, a promise-based API,
but this is still an abstraction
around XMLHttpRequest.
This has basically hid
all the gory details and
gave you the exact same
thing with a nicer API.
And there are some issues here we
don't have a lot of control over
the request and response.
We make one, can't really modify or
do anything with it.
We get a response, but it's usually
just the JSON that came back, or
the XML if you're unlucky.
And it wasn't really made for
what we're trying to do, you can only
get certain types of data types.
Let's say, there are other things
you might wanna get from a server.
Images, video,
literally anything that's just not XML or
JSON, and
JSON's not even in the name, right,
that just happens to be a lucky break
that you can also get JSON from it.